+++
title = "3. Core concepts"
+++

**LinkedPipes Applications** is a visualization web platform that allows the users to explore, visualize and publish LinkedData based visualizer applications. Applications created with these platforms can be easily published and integrated anywhere on the Web!

The main features of the platform can be described as follows:

1. The user owns and manages his private data space. He can upload graph data there from his computer or provide an URL from which the data should be imported.
2. The user can share his data with other users.
3. The user can create and share data sources (entities that provide access to the graph data, for example a SPARQL endpoint).
4. The user can create, edit and share analyses (tree-like structures where the data flow from the leaves to the root and are processed when passing through a node).
5. The user can browse through the data sources and the analysis results using a generic visualization tool. He can also alter the visualization using ontologies.

LinkedPipes Applications are using additional tools from LinkedPipes suite:

 - **LinkedPipes ETL** is an Extract Transform Load for Linked Data. It runs so called **Pipelines** which are defined data transformation processes. The ETL pipelines are
 *executed* and we call this **(Pipeline) executions**.

 - **LinkedPipes Discovery** is a service to generate such Pipeline from the data.
It takes RDF data (SPARQL graphs in an endpoint) and generates an ETL pipeline
so that the transformed RDF data matches the structure we want from it based on
provided configuration. We call the process of running LinkedPipes Discovery a **Discovery session**.
